

Now let's talk about iPhone.

iPhone has forever changed the world.

Every single day people rely on iPhone, from their most demanding tasks,

to capturing the moments of their lives, streaming their favorite TV shows,

playing their favorite games,

staying up-to-date with the news of the world,

and connecting with friends and loved ones.

This is what drives us to create the best iPhone possible,

to create an experience unlike any other with legendary ease of use,

beautiful and durable designs,

with water resistance and great battery life,

with industry leading performance,

and the world's most advanced camera systems,

and with privacy built in.

People love iPhone.

And we keep making iPhone better,

more powerful, more capable, and even more fun to use.

Today we are thrilled to introduce our next generation of iPhone.

Here it is.

This is iPhone 13.

To tell you more, here's Kaiann.

Kaiann: Let's take a closer look at iPhone 13 starting with design.

It has the sleek, flat-edged design that people love.

It's also incredibly durable with our exclusive Ceramic Shield front,

tougher than any smartphone glass,

and has industry leading IP68 water resistance.

iPhone 13 has a new look for the advanced dual-camera system

with the lenses arranged diagonally.

The aerospace-grade aluminum frame is beautifully formed

and really shows off five new colors:

an all-new Pink, Blue, Midnight, Starlight, and (PRODUCT)RED.

On the front, the TrueDepth camera system has been reengineered

to provide more display area.

Everything inside, including Face ID,

the most secure facial authentication in a smartphone,

fits into a space that's 20% smaller.

iPhone 13 is designed with the environment in mind,

using many recycled materials.

For example, these antenna lines use upcycled plastic water bottles,

an industry first.

Under the hood, iPhone 13 has been completely re-architected

to make room for new technologies and a bigger battery.

This beautiful design is the same across two sizes,

iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 mini.

Both feature a more advanced Super Retina XDR display.

It's 28% brighter, up to 800 nits,

brilliant for viewing even when you're outside.

For HDR content like photos and videos,

the peak brightness is higher at 1200 nits.

And you can enjoy the pixel-precision brightness for longer

thanks to the display's improved power efficiency.

You'll see true blacks in games, photos, and videos

with the incredible contrast ratio of our OLED display.

This new brighter Super Retina XDR display

delivers an immersive viewing experience

with support for Dolby Vision, HDR10, and HLG.

Now let's talk about the chip

that powers iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 mini.

Frankly, the competition is still playing catch-up to our chips,

not just from last year, but even from two years ago.

And today, we're extending our lead with A15 Bionic.

Here's Hope to tell you all about it.

Hope: Our silicon is the engine of iPhone.

With A15 Bionic, we have innovations across the entire system

to deliver more performance and power efficiency,

At its foundation, A15 uses five nanometer technology,

which enables us to include nearly 15 billion transistors.

You'll absolutely fly through demanding workloads smoothly and efficiently

thanks to a powerful new 6-core CPU

with two high-performance and four high-efficiency cores.

We've increased the performance

of our CPU's dedicated machine learning accelerators

that power experiences such as advanced text-to-speech in Siri

and on-device processing of directions in Maps.

It's the fastest CPU in any smartphone,

up to 50% faster than the leading competition,

For graphics-intensive tasks, like advanced games,

A15 Bionic features our latest 4-core GPU,

enabling more eye-catching visuals and lighting effects.

It delivers up to 30% faster graphics versus the leading competition.

And we continue to push the limits of machine learning

with the new 16-core Neural Engine that is perfect for ML tasks.

It's capable of an astounding 15.8 trillion operations per second.

We design our Neural Engine together

with our camera hardware and software teams.

This unique vision and integration brings to life leading capabilities

in video and image processing.

This means faster ML computations for experiences

like Live Text with iOS 15.

Point your camera at text on the go and instantly take action,

like buying tickets or getting directions.

The ML advancements across our entire chip will empower developers

to do even more in their apps, like SwingVision,

which can smoothly run powerful CoreML and AR models

on A15 Bionic for real-time shot tracking,

video analysis, and remote coaching.

PeakVisor helps you navigate the outdoors to identify mountains

and explore detail-rich 3D maps while hiking.

And Seek uses a machine learning model trained by over 20 million photos

to instantly identify plants and animals around you,

and all the processing is done on-device.

A15 is a powerhouse.

In addition to core performance improvements,

there's a new display engine,

new video encoder and decoder,

and twice the system cache.

There's nothing in the world like this chip.

Back to Kaiann.

Kaiann: A15 Bionic also powers the amazing camera system on iPhone 13.

It combines our powerful cameras,

next-generation image signal processor,

and computational photography to create our most advanced dual-camera system.

The all-new Wide camera lets you take stunning shots in any situation,

like this photo full of color and texture.

It gathers 47% more light for less noise and brighter results

in your photos and videos.

This is enabled by larger, 1.7-micron pixels

that capture more light and a wide f/1.6 aperture.

It's the biggest sensor we've ever put in our dual-camera system.

iPhone 12 Pro Max introduced an amazing advanced technology,

sensor-shift optical image stabilization.

And incredibly, we are bringing this to iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 mini.

Here's a low-light photo from the new Wide camera with sensor-shift OIS.

The larger sensor captures nearly 50% more light.

Hard to believe this photo was taken in a dark room

with just a little light coming through a window.

Night mode shots are even more impressive.

Capture times are shorter, too, for sharper images of your subjects

and fine details.

We've also custom-designed a new Ultra Wide camera

that will reveal more of the dark areas with less noise,

like you see here in the walls and ceilings.

Capturing fun, creative perspectives is easy with the Ultra Wide

and now it's even better on iPhone 13.

Now let's switch to video.

iPhone already has the highest quality video in a smartphone.

And iPhone 13 brings a brand-new feature,

Cinematic mode.

Now over to Johnnie to tell you more.

Johnnie: Filmmakers have used focus changes

to tell engaging stories for decades.

It's a technique called rack focus

that requires skill, planning, and creative vision.

You've seen rack focus used in all your favorite films.

It brings a whole new dimension to storytelling.

Well, we're bringing this capability to iPhone

in a simple and intuitive way,

so you can capture cinema-style moments,

even if you aren't a professional filmmaker.

And guess what, the movie clip you just saw

was shot on iPhone.

And we'd love to show you more.

It's remarkable and so easy to use.

Just start recording,

and Cinematic mode will hold focus on the subject

even when they're moving.

Focus transitions happen automatically in real time,

like from one subject to another.

Cinematic mode anticipates when a subject is about to enter the frame,

and intelligently racks focus to them when they do,

And when a subject gazes away from the camera,

iPhone itself changes focus and then back.

To create these automatic focus changes,

we extensively studied the art of cinematography

and the creative choices directors of photography make

to guide the viewers' attention.

We combined these learnings

with computational algorithms

so you can effortlessly create cinema-grade videos.

For more creative control, you can tap to shift focus at any time.

Tap again to lock and track focus on the subject.

Cinematic mode shoots in Dolby Vision HDR.

This is enabled by our Apple-custom sensor

and the incredible power of A15 Bionic,

which grades each frame in Dolby Vision

live while you are recording.

And that's Cinematic mode.

Now back to Kaiann.

Kaiann: iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 mini

have advanced new camera systems

with sensor-shift OIS,

fantastic low-light performance,

and Cinematic mode also on the front TrueDepth camera.

Next, let's turn to 5G.

Millions and millions of iPhone users are already experiencing 5G every day

for super fast downloads and uploads, lower latency,

and new experiences on the go.

And on iPhone 13, we've innovated further

on custom-designed antennas and radio components

that let us add more bands

so iPhone 13 works on 5G with the latest speeds and in more places.

The world is moving quickly to 5G.

We're collaborating with more carrier partners

for the best call quality, performance, coverage, and battery life.

By the end of the year, we will double 5G support

to over 200 carriers in 60 countries and regions.

That means you can benefit from 5G in more places than ever

to binge watch your favorite shows together using SharePlay on Apple TV+

and even more streaming partners for video and music.

You can be ultra competitive in multiplayer games,

share surprise greetings from a celebrity in high res over Cameo,

or take the sound at any live event to a whole new level with Mix Halo.

5G is taking over,

and iPhone 13 is ready with the best 5G experience.

Now let's talk about battery life,

which is really important to our users.

iPhone 13 has a faster chip,

faster 5G speeds, a brighter OLED display,

and the most advanced dual-camera system ever in an iPhone.

And with all these new capabilities,

the iPhone 13 lineup has better battery life.

On iPhone 13 mini, most users will experience

an hour and a half hour longer in their day than with iPhone 12 mini.

And on iPhone 13, two and a half hours longer

than iPhone 12 for incredible all-day battery life.

This amazing battery life is delivered by A15 Bionic,

more power-efficient components, a bigger battery,

and power optimizations from our deep hardware and software integration,

like Smart Data Mode, which intelligently conserves battery life

by automatically shifting your iPhone to LTE when 5G speeds aren't needed.

We also look at every opportunity to improve privacy.

With iPhone and iOS, privacy is built in from the beginning.

With iOS 15, Siri uses on-device speech recognition,

meaning your Siri audio requests do not leave your iPhone by default.

Intelligent tracking prevention now prevents trackers from profiling you

using your IP address.

And mail privacy protection hides your IP address

and prevents senders from learning about your mail activity.

Another huge benefit of owning an iPhone is the vast ecosystem

that extends what iPhone can do.

That includes MagSafe, which we introduced last fall

and has been a hit.

From multi-chargers and swiveling charger stands

to cases, wallets, tripods, and car mounts,

along with our own accessories

for charging, like the MagSafe Battery Pack.

For iPhone 13, we have leather, silicone, and clear cases

in stunning new colors

and engineered to work perfectly with MagSafe.

We also have a new MagSafe Leather Wallet

that supports Find My.

You can now be notified of the last known location

where your wallet was separated from your iPhone.

iPhone 13 is loaded with new technologies,

including Cinematic mode,

A15 Bionic that's faster than the competition,

our most advanced dual-camera system with sensor-shift OIS,

longer battery life, 5G, and so much more.

With all this, iPhone 13 still starts

at just $699.

We also have some fantastic offers from Apple and our partners,

including up to $700 off in the U.S.

when you trade in a qualifying iPhone.

And we're increasing the starting capacity to 128 gigabytes

for double the storage and adding a new 512-gigabyte option.

iPhone 13 is impressively powerful.

Let's see it in action.

Now back to Tim.

Tim: We are so excited for iPhone 13.

With all of its power and capability,

we can't wait to see what our customers will do with it,

and we're not done yet.

Our Pro lineup pushes the limits with our most advanced technologies

for our users who want the very best iPhone,

best-in-class performance, best-in-class camera experience,

great durability, larger displays,

and incredible design.

This year, we build on that in a major way.

Let's take a look at our most Pro iPhone ever.

This is iPhone 13 Pro.

To tell you more, here's Joz.

[upbeat music]

Joz: iPhone 13 Pro features our most pro design

with exceptional materials,

like these surgical-grade stainless steel bands.

Each band goes through a physical vapor deposition process

to create an Apple-custom finish that is so elegant,

yet incredibly resistant to abrasion and corrosion.

iPhone 13 Pro comes in four striking finishes,

a rich, deep graphite, gorgeous gold,

beautiful silver, and this all-new sierra blue.

This sierra blue required an entirely new process,

using multiple layers of nanometer-scale metallic ceramics applied

across the surface for a stunning and very durable finish.

iPhone 13 Pro has a newly designed front

with a TrueDepth camera system that's 20% smaller.

On the back, you see our incredible new camera system

with beautiful stainless steel trim

that perfectly surrounds the sapphire crystal lenses

of each of our three new cameras,

and a beautiful textured matte glass that feels great

and shows off the stunning color.

On the front, it has our incredible Ceramic Shield

that is tougher than any smartphone glass.

It also has industry-leading IP68 water resistance.

On the inside, it's been completely redesigned

to support our latest pro technologies,

including the all-new camera system,

incredible new display, and a bigger battery.

iPhone 13 Pro also supports MagSafe and the ever-expanding ecosystem

of really cool, new accessories.

And it's joined by the larger iPhone 13 Pro Max.

Now let's talk about performance and the powerful new A15 Bionic.

As you heard from Hope, A15 Bionic features a CPU

with two new high-performance cores and four new high-efficiency cores,

and a faster Neural Engine, as well as our new ISP,

which provides improved noise reduction and tone mapping.

And for these Pro models,

A15 Bionic includes our most powerful graphics ever

with a new 5-core GPU.

It provides up to 50% faster graphics performance than the leading competition.

In fact, iPhone 13 Pro has the fastest graphics performance

in any smartphone ever,

great for high-performance gaming

and our most powerful camera features,

like Apple ProRAW and 4K Dolby Vision video.

And the A15 Bionic chip's new 5-core GPU and custom display engine combine

with an amazing new display that takes the iPhone experience even further.

This year, we're proud to introduce an entirely new Super Retina XDR display.

With a new, more efficient OLED panel,

the display now supports up to 1000 nits peak outdoor brightness.

That's 25% higher than last year.

And for the first time, we're bringing ProMotion to iPhone.

With our latest technology, this ProMotion display can refresh

from as low as 10 hertz to as high as 120 hertz.

ProMotion is designed to respond dynamically and match your content.

The advanced, custom architecture produces fast frame rates when you need them,

and preserves battery life when you don't.

We also optimized iOS to take full advantage of this.

For example, when swiping between apps or scrolling,

the system adapts the frame rates

to precisely match the speed of the user's finger.

The result is an incredibly responsive experience that is fast and fluid.

Of course, ProMotion is also great for apps,

providing more responsive inputs, smoother graphics, and more precise gameplay.

We brought in a few developers to see what they could do with it,

and the results were amazing.

Joe: Alright, let’s go. [laughs]

I work on a title called Marvel: Future Revolution.

Kyle: I am the Senior Design Evangelist for Adobe.

I work on Adobe Fresco.

Tommy: And I am the Founder and CTO of Super Evil Megacorp.

Catalyst Black is really a rich and detailed world

and ProMotion’s adaptive frame rate is really unique.

Because of the 120 frames per second, you can get perfect response time.

It’s about the refresh rate, it’s about the controls.

It’s almost like your fingers are glued to the screen

Kyle: A device like this changes the game for artists everywhere.

With ProMotion, it means that I’m actually seeing

the pixels move in real time.

There is absolutely no lag.

Joe: Super Retina XDR display allows

the gamers to see further into the distance

and catch more details and surroundings.

So we have all these great characters. They need to look better than real.

Tommy: The iPhone 13 Pro has

one of the most powerful mobile GPUs ever created,

and with that, we can really bring

all these graphics features to the mobile device.

Joe: I like that part.

Tommy: The incredible combination of A15 Bionic, ProMotion, and 5G

makes the iPhone 13 Pro the most powerful smartphone in the world,

or any world, for that matter.

Joz: The new Super Retina XDR display with ProMotion comes in two great sizes,

6.1-inch and 6.7-inch.

And the custom-designed OLED panels work across different lighting conditions

and content types, maintaining incredible color accuracy and contrast.

Now let's talk about the all-new iPhone 13 Pro camera system.

This is our biggest camera advancement ever.

To tell you more about it, here's Louis.

Louis: iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max introduce an all-new camera system,

starting with a new 77-millimeter telephoto camera with 3X optical zoom,

a new Ultra Wide camera with auto-focus and a larger f/1.8 aperture

with a 92% improvement in low light,

and a new Wide camera that has a larger f/1.5 aperture

and 1.9 micron pixels for our largest sensor ever,

with up to 2.2 times improvement in low light.

So you'll get beautiful photos in any situation.

The larger sensor of the Wide offers more light gathering for less noise

and faster shutter speeds and even longer brackets

when shooting night mode photos with a tripod.

The new 77-millimeter telephoto enables beautiful, classic portraiture photos

and 3X optical zoom for photos and videos

for a total 6X optical zoom range on iPhone 13 Pro.

With the new Ultra Wide, low light photos are brighter and sharper

with more details, like you see in her dress or on the couch.

The Ultra Wide camera also enables something entirely new on iPhone,

Macro Photography.

Macro Photography typically uses a special lens

that can focus at close distances.

The new Ultra Wide lens design and auto-focus system

enable incredibly sharp focus

and can magnify subjects with a minimum distance of 2 centimeters.

So you can get detailed close ups,

like of this beautiful red daisy, the cells in this leaf,

or the water droplets on this mushroom.

And for the first time, all of the cameras,

including the telephoto, have night mode,

which is made possible by advanced computational photography.

With tight integration between hardware and software,

our cameras can do even more.

To tell you all about it, here's Rebecca.

Rebecca: When tuning the iPhone camera system,

we shoot and review thousands of photos.

Analyzing all of those photos allows us to deliver features,

like Smart HDR 4,

which automatically brings improved color,

contrast, and lighting for each subject in a group photo,

including for challenging shots like this.

Our software in ISP adjusts for different lighting,

and we've made improvements for skin tones,

so everyone looks even better.

We're also introducing a way to personalize your iPhone camera

with Photographic Styles.

This is a feature that pro photographers are going to love.

Photographic Styles bring your individual preferences

right into our advanced image pipeline,

applying local edits like a photo editor would,

but in real time as we render the photo.

That means you get all the benefits of our multi-frame image processing pipeline

with the ability to customize it in a way you could never achieve

with a simple filter.

Select from one of our four default styles before you shoot.

For example, Rich Contrast for a bolder look

or Vibrant for a punchier look.

Each uses our deep semantic understanding

to intelligently apply the right amount of adjustments

to different parts of the photo while preserving skin tones.

You can also customize the styles further with tone and warmth,

which combine multiple attributes for a look that's all your own.

Styles works across scenes and subject types.

You don't need to set it every time,

so you can define your style and use it across your photos.

And that's Photographic Styles coming to iPhone 13 Pro,

and we're excited to bring it to iPhone 13 as well.

Now back to Joz.

Joz: The all-new Pro camera system combined with the power

of computational photography will allow users

to capture beautiful images better than ever before.

The new iPhone 13 Pro camera system

also provides our most advanced video features.

The all-new camera system, along with Dolby Vision HDR recording,

produces incredible Pro-level video.

So we asked two-time Academy Award winning director Kathryn Bigelow

and Oscar-nominated cinematographer Greig Fraser

to show us what they can do with the power of iPhone 13 Pro.

Kathryn: It’s a completely integrated process now.

The iPhone doesn’t require any ancillary pieces of equipment.

Like, it becomes still, and she turns slowly.

It’s the dawning realization.

I thought it was a good challenge.

You know, these are all genres I love.

And it’s so great to kind of parachute in, do a deep dive with the iPhone.

And with so much accessibility, I think all pretension tends to disappear.

And so it makes the set and the filming process much less apprehensive.

Greig: There was no limitations to what I could do with this particular camera.

Whereas normally, everybody gets so precious about a camera lens.

It’s so expensive or it’s so--it’s so fragile.

One of the things that the iPhone couldn’t do up until now

was to create an idea of depth from a lens.

With Cinematic mode, what’s exciting is, we can actually choose focus later.

To me, that’s really bringing it up to the professional film cameras.

We can actually go ahead and make these stories

and make these films using the tools on this iPhone.

I believe that with the advent and with the addition of Cinematic mode,

we’re going to very, very soon see filmmakers make films

in a different way, which is exciting.

Kathryn: It might even birth a brand-new genre.

Greig: I have no doubt it will.

Just given the size and given the ability to move this camera.

Kathryn: Exactly.

Greig: It will change the language of cinema in a very positive way.

Joz: Everything you just saw, including the behind the scenes footage,

was shot on iPhone 13 Pro.

With major updates across the Wide, Ultra Wide, and Telephoto cameras,

it's an incredible device for filmmaking.

The new Ultra Wide camera enables amazing macro slo-mo videos

thanks to the new lens design.

And the new 3X telephoto allows you to zoom even closer to the action

and offers a great new focal length for video.

This is really awesome when using our all-new Cinematic mode,

which uses machine learning and disparity to create a depth map

that's built into the video.

So you can change the depth effect, including the level of bokeh

and where the focus is applied, even after the capture.

This is another iPhone first,

as iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 Pro are the only smartphones that can do this.

We also have another Pro video feature coming later this year,

and that's ProRes video.

ProRes video offers exceptionally high color fidelity

and more efficient encoding for use in pro video editing apps like Final Cut Pro.

That's why it's widely used by video editors as the final delivery format

for commercials, feature films, and broadcast.

A15 Bionic adds hardware acceleration for ProRes.

And in combination with our advanced video encoders and decoders,

as well as our faster file system and flash storage pipeline,

you can now record up to 4K at 30 frames per second in ProRes

right in the Camera app.

iPhone 13 Pro is the only smartphone to provide an end-to-end pro workflow,

allowing you to record and edit in ProRes or Dolby Vision.

This will transform filmmaking

with a device that can simply slip into your pocket.

Next, let's talk about battery life.

This is our most Pro iPhone ever with our fastest performance,

most advanced display,

and most powerful camera system ever in an iPhone.

Thanks to the efficiency of the A15 Bionic and iOS 15,

as well a larger battery,

iPhone 13 Pro delivers incredible all-day battery life.

iPhone 13 Pro lasts more than one and a half hours longer

in your day than iPhone 12 Pro.

And the iPhone 13 Pro Max will last more than two and a half hours longer

than the iPhone 12 Pro Max.

That means iPhone 13 Pro Max has the longest battery life

ever in an iPhone.

The entire iPhone 13 lineup has been carefully designed

to minimize its impact on the environment.

We redesigned the packaging to eliminate the outer plastic wrap,

saving 600 metric tons of plastic.

This brings us closer to our goal of completely removing plastic

from all of our packaging.

iPhone uses 100% recycled rare Earth elements in magnets

and 100% recycled tin in the solder of the main logic board.

So that's iPhone 13 Pro with our most advanced technologies:

an all-new camera system with three new cameras,

ProRes video, Cinematic mode,

the new Super Retina XDR display with ProMotion,

A15 Bionic with 5-core GPU,

5G, MagSafe,

and incredible durability features.

These iPhones push the boundaries for what's possible in a smartphone.

Even with all this incredible technology,

iPhone 13 Pro still starts at $999.

And iPhone 13 Pro Max still starts at $1,099.

We also have amazing offers from Apple and our partners,

including up to $1,000 off in the U.S. when you trade in a qualifying iPhone.

And this year, we're introducing a new 1-terabyte storage option.

This is a great addition for our Pro iPhone users.

The 1-terabyte joins our 128-, 256-, and 512-gigabyte storage options.

You can pre-order all four new models of iPhone 13 family this Friday,

September 17th,

and they will be available on September 24th.

So here's our new iPhone lineup,

including iPhone 12,

iPhone 11, and iPhone SE,

starting at just $399.

Now back to Tim.



Tim: Thank you, Joz, and thank you to all of today's presenters.

What a spectacular set of announcements.

Our most popular iPad is now powered by the A13 Bionic

with a new 12-megapixel Ultra Wide front camera with Center Stage.

This is a big upgrade.

iPad mini gets a completely new all-screen design

with a brilliant Liquid Retina Display,

blazing fast performance with the new A15 Bionic chip,

new cameras with Center Stage, and all new colors.

This is the mightiest iPad mini yet.

The new Apple Watch Series 7 has our largest and most advanced display,

optimized UI, new Watch faces, and it's our most durable ever.

It's the best smartwatch in the world.

An update to Apple Fitness+, adding Pilates and guided meditation,

a new workout to get you ready for snow season,

as well as Group Workouts to help keep you motivated.

And iPhone 13 with fantastic new technologies,

including our most advanced dual camera system

with Cinematic mode, A15 Bionic,

5G, brighter Super Retina XDR display,

and longer all-day battery life.

iPhone 13 Pro with our most state-of-the-art technologies

for those who want the most out of their iPhone.

With our biggest camera system advancement yet

including Cinematic mode and ProRes video,

the Super Retina XDR display with ProMotion,

A15 Bionic with 5-core GPU,

5G, and industry-leading durability.

These are the best iPhones we've ever created.

Here at Apple, the customer is at the center of everything we do.

And we continue to innovate,

designing the very best products and services to enrich people's lives

and to empower them to do great things every day.

Thank you for joining us.

Stay safe and take care.


